So let's now use all that information we get back from our backend when rendering our index.ejs page,
we have all these utility information pieces, these utility variables like total products has next page
and so on which hopefully should be helpful.
So let's go back to index.ejs
.
and there instead of hardcoding this, we can now generate this dynamically.
Now I always want to have page one here, that is something I absolutely need.
Let's say the page next to it should be the current page,
so actually instead of total products, I should return current page here which is simply the page
number so that I always know what's the currently active page. So I'm returning current page as well
and here, I can now output equals current page because I'm now getting that data in my view
and here I therefore will load the current page number if I should click on that link again.
And this current page will receive a css class of active because that will always be the active class
and I'll quickly go to my main css file to give that the same style as when I hover over it.
So here I'll have my pagination a class with an active class added to it with a single dot, a active will
receive the same style as when I hover over it.
Now I only want to render this one by the way if the current page is not one because otherwise I will already
render it here, so we can add some ejs logic here to check if current page is equal to one or to be precise,
if that is not the case.
If that is not the case,
then I will render this otherwise I will not render this. So I can now close that
and now this will only get rendered if the current page is not equal to one, like this.
This will always get rendered, the current page
and I also want to render the next page
let's say, so I will repeat this one more time here and this will be the next page.
Remember the next page is some information which I return as well,
next page here. So I will render the next page, only however if there is a next page and that is another
piece of information I do return, has next page.
So let me go back and here again if has next page, so if that is true, then I will render this, otherwise
I won't,
so here I just close that if statement.
I also want to render the highest page, so I'll add another anchor
tag here and that will use this last page information,
by the way the active class here of course not be added here and also not be added here.
So here I will render the last page and it will lead to last page, here
it will lead to next page by the way so we have to adjust this link
obviously, here it's the last page
and this last page should also not always be rendered, it should only be rendered if last page is not
equal to the current page,
so if we are not already on the current page because then this link would already render the link to
this last page and the next page should also not be equal to the last page because if it is, then this
link will already be rendered
and this is then the last and next page simultaneously
but if both is not true, then I will render this.
Now let's have a look at this
and let's reload this and here I got an error, little logical error. Count used to be the function you should
use,
now it's count documents
so change count to count documents here
but this error is not coming from that
but in the index.ejs here I got a dollar sign instead of a percentage sign which I should use.
With that fixed, this looks a bit better
but I got 11 here and then a two again
so there seemed to be some issues.
For one it's rendering
the one here even though the current page is not equal to one,
the problem here is really just the data format,
we're comparing strings and numbers here
so I should remove one equal sign
and now this works.
And now regarding the 11, next page somehow is calculated to be 11.
The reason for that is that page here is a string, not a number and therefore page plus one gets concatenated
to 11, so to 11,
this can be fixed by adding a plus here in front of request query page
and now this looks better.
Now I can switch between these two and this is looking all right now with that error, this format,
this data type error fixed,
now what happens if I load that page without the page query parameter and then I have this not a number
issue here.
And to fix this, I can add two pipe symbols here in that one
and this means if this is undefined or if this does not hold a true-ish value, then we'll use this value
instead. With that if I save that
and I reload this page, I'll start on page 1
and now I can jump around.
Now let's also try this,
when changing the items per page to one so that we should have one extra page.
Now if I reload this with Page 1 being loaded, I can go to page 3 and 1, 2, 3.
Now I don't see a two when I'm on page three because we have no logic for it in our template right now,
I could of course add that logic to also show the previous page. For that I can replicate this and
if I have a previous page,
then I can show my previous page and link to it here.
Now of course I want to avoid that I have two ones if I'm on page 2 because that would render this
link and I would render this link,
so I don't want to render this first page if I am on it already or if it's equal to the previous page.
So I only want to render this first page
if it's not equal to the current page and if the previous page is not equal to 1. Now by the way since
I fixed that data type, we can also work with double equal signs here again. So now if I reload this
page,
it's in the wrong place, the previous page here should be before
this current page so let's fix that.
Reload again,
now this is looking better,
now I can go to page two, page one and that all seems to work.
Now let's add another product, product4 with another deck again to see how it works with four products
on the shop page
and now I see the first page, the next page and the last page. If I go to the last page, I see the previous
page and the first page,
if I go to three, well then I have the previous and the next page which is the last page and the first
page.
So now this pagination is working and you can always of course tweak this to your requirements or your
different needs
but now this is looking good to me here.